# **Strategy Program Overview**

The Strategic Management program at BYU helps students develop the
skills needed to improve organizational performance by solving complex
business problems and capitalizing on new opportunities. Doing so
requires both hard technical skills (e.g. coding, data analysis,
financial modeling) and soft people skills (e.g. influencing others
through storytelling, developing trust, and working in teams).

Because of the necessity for both hard and soft skills the Strategy
program seeks to attract students with high leadership potential who
practice genuine curiosity, work well with others, are analytically
rigorous, and driven.

**Curriculum**

Strategy students engage with a challenging curriculum that teaches them
how to organize and structure available information, then articulate
clear, logical decisions based on it.

In doing this, students will:

- Engage in [case study based classroom
  discussions](https://www.hbs.edu/mba/academic-experience/the-case-method)

- Gather, analyze, and articulate insights from real world data using
  Excel, SQL, Python, and Tableau

- Prepare and present CEO quality slide decks containing your
  recommendations

- Gain proficiency with the latest AI tools

- Learn foundational theory and frameworks to guide their thinking

- Complete a capstone project for a real company where they either:

  - Analyze a real company's strategy and present tailored
    recommendations to it's leadership

> OR

- Build a real physical or digital product from scratch (via
  [Sandbox](https://creators.byu.edu/sandbox/sandbox) or [Crocker
  Innovation Fellowship)](https://crockerinnovationfellows.com/), or
  complete a Product Mangement internship with a leading company.

A list of courses and key questions addressed in shown in the Appendix.

  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  **Course   **Title**       **Key Question Addressed by the Class**
  Number**                   
  ---------- --------------- ---------------------------------------------------
  STRAT 401  Intro to        How do firms sustain competitive advantage and
             Strategic       capture value? (case discussions)
             Management      

  STRAT 402  Economics of    What are the economic foundations that drive the
             Strategy        success and failure of companies (e.g. competion,
                             pricing, supply, demand, production, cost)?

  STRAT 411  Competitive     You play the role of consultant and answer for
             Strategy        executives: What should the company do to improve
                             performance in a competitive and always changing
                             market? (case presentations)

  STRAT 412  Data Analytics  What is the data telling me? (gather, analyze, and
             for Strategists communicate insights)

  STRAT      Strategic       How can I apply rigourous thinking to broader,
  431/432    Thinking        societal questions?

  ENT 401    Creativity and  How do companies innovate and create more value for
             Innovation      customers?

  STRAT 325  Intro to        How can I best prepare to land the interview, nail
             Management      it, and then excel in Management Consulting?
             Consulting      

  STRAT 490R Creating        How can I leverage new AI tools to rapidly test and
             Digital         iterate on new digital product ideas? (build with
             Products with   AI assisted coding)
             AI: Strategy &  
             Prototyping     

  STRAT 490R Understanding   How does AI work under the hood and what can I
             AI: From        expect and not expect from it? (explores the math
             Foundations to  and code)
             Strategy        

  STRAT 490R Enterprise      How can leaders leverage AI to lead responsible
             Technology      digital transformation within their company?
             Strategy in the 
             Age of AI       

  STRAT 490R Advanced        How can I apply advanced analytics to real business
             Strategy        questions? (python, statistical methods)
             Analytics       
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Career outcomes**\
Strategy students graduate with a strong track record of placement in
consulting, corporate strategy, and product management roles. The major
consistently achieves [**100%
placement**](https://byu-my.sharepoint.com/:b:/g/personal/murff_byu_edu/EVe5md0DtNhOrolfnGxg6fQB1F75peFtvGgYqT2rEkYJAg?e=J8Qt0U),
with the **highest average starting salary in the Marriott School
(\$83,000)** and the **highest number of students placed at [MBB and
other top consulting
firms](https://byu-my.sharepoint.com/:b:/g/personal/murff_byu_edu/EXAQsKD1LS5Pm8VckCiUU4gBE9NLnEU2Oieu1exM-GKkUA?e=BxObQe)**.

We also place a large number of students at technology companies and in
Product Management roles.

**What we look for in applicants**\
Students who thrive in Strategy tend to be multi-dimensional: strong
academically, good communicators, naturally curious, collaborative with
others, and logical thinkers.

The program is not the best fit for students who prefer highly scripted
and formulaic environments or curriculum.
